README.md, before:

[![build status](https://travis-ci.org/snorpey/triangulate-image.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/snorpey/triangulate-image)

triangulate-image
===

installation
---

* [triangulate-image.min.js](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/snorpey/triangulate-image/master/dist/triangulate-image.min.js) 27kb, (9kb gzipped)
* [triangulate-image.js](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/snorpey/triangulate-image/master/dist/triangulate-image.js) 78kb
* [triangulate-image-with-polyfills.min.js](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/snorpey/triangulate-image/master/dist/triangulate-image-with-polyfills.min.js) 29kb, (9kb gzipped)
* [triangulate-image-with-polyfills.js](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/snorpey/triangulate-image/master/dist/triangulate-image-with-polyfills.js) 86kb
* [triangulate-image-master.zip](https://github.com/snorpey/triangulate-image/archive/master.zip)

```npm install triangulate-image```

```bower install triangulate-image```

```jspm install triangulate-image```

what is it?
---
a javascript module that converts images to triangular polygons:

![triangulated image of a. lincoln](example.png)

for a live example, you can check out my [triangulation](http://snorpey.github.io/triangulation/) editor online. there's also a list with [example images](examples/examples.md), and [transparency examples](examples/transparent-examples.md) included in this repository. 

how to use it
===

this library can be used in web browsers as well as in node.

it supports loading as an AMD module, as a CommonJS module or a global variable.

a simple example:

```javascript
var params = { blur: 110, vertexCount: 700 };
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate(params)
		.fromImage(image)
		.toSVG()
		.then( function( svgMarkup ) {
			document.body.innerHTML = svgMarkup;
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

as you can see, there are __three__ calls happening:

1. ``triangulate()`` is called with the __triangulation parameters__
2. then ``fromImage()`` is called with the __input__ image as parameter
3. and finally ``toSVG()`` is called to __output__ svg markup.

when using the library, always follow these three steps: _triangulation_, _input_, _output_.

for an explanation of all available methods and parameters, check out the [reference](#reference) section below.

by default, all input and output methods are asynchronous and use promises for flow control. for most methods, there synchronous versions available as well. this library uses web workers for processing the image data where possible.

you can find more examples for both node and browser in the [examples](examples) folder of this repository.

reference
===

* [``triangulate()``](#triangulate)
* input: [``fromImage()``](#fromimage), [``fromImage()``](#fromimagesync), [``fromImageData()``](#fromimagedata), [``fromImageDataSync()``](#fromimagedatasync), [``fromBuffer()``](#frombuffer), [``fromBufferSync()``](#frombuffersync), [``fromStream()``](#fromstream)
* output: [``toDataURL()``](#todataurl), [``toDataURLSync()``](#todataurlsync), [``toImageData()``](#toimagedata), [``toImageDataSync()``](#toimagedatasync), [``toData()``](#todata), [``toDataSync()``](#todatasync), [``toSVG()``](#tosvg), [``toSVGSync()``](#tosvgsync), [``toJPGStream()``](#tojpgstream), [``toPNGStream()``](#topngstream), [``toSVGStream()``](#tosvgstream)

triangulate()
---
``triangulate()`` can take the following parameters

```javascript

// the parameters listed are the default params

var triangulationParams = {
	accuracy: 0.7,    		// float beteween 0 and 1
	blur: 40,         		// positive integer
	threshold: 50,    		// integer between 1 and 100
	vertexCount: 700, 		// positive integer
	fill: true,       		// boolean or string with css color (e.g '#bada55', 'red', rgba(100,100,100,0.5))
	stroke: true,     		// boolean or string with css color (e.g '#bada55', 'red', hsla(0, 50%, 52%, 0.5))
	strokeWidth: 0.5, 		// positive float
	gradients: true,  		// boolean
	gradientStops: 4, 		// positive integer >= 2
	lineJoin: 'miter',		// 'miter', 'round', or 'bevel'
	transparentColor: false // boolean false or string with css color
};

```

it returns an object containing all __input methods__.

fromImage()
---
``fromImage()`` expects an ``Image`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_.

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate()
		.fromImage( image )
		.toSVG()
		.then ( function ( svgMarkup ) {
			document.body.innerHTML = svgMarkup;
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

_please note_: this method is not available in node.
_important_: when using the library in a browser, make sure the image was loaded before triangulating it.

fromImageSync()
---
``fromImageSync()`` expects an ``Image`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_. it is the synchronous version of [``fromImage()``](#fromimage).

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	document.body.innerHTML = triangulate().fromImageSync( image ).toSVG();
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

_please note_: this method is not available in node.
_important_: when using the library in a browser, make sure the image was loaded before triangulating it.

fromImageData()
---
``fromImageData()`` expects an ``ImageData`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_.

example:

```javascript
var canvas = document.createElement( 'canvas' );
var ctx = canvas.getContext( '2d' );

ctx.fillStyle = 'red';
ctx.fillRect( 30, 30, 90, 45 );
ctx.fillStyle = 'green';
ctx.fillRect( 10, 20, 50, 60 );

var imageData = ctx.getImageData( 0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height );

triangulate()
	.fromImageData( imageData )
	.toSVG()
	.then( function ( svgMarkup ) {
		document.body.innerHTML = svgMarkup;
	} );
```

fromImageDataSync()
---
``fromImageDataSync()`` expects an ``ImageData`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_. it is the synchronous version of [``fromImageData()``](#fromimagedata).

example:

```javascript
var canvas = document.createElement( 'canvas' );
var ctx = canvas.getContext( '2d' );

ctx.fillStyle = 'red';
ctx.fillRect( 30, 30, 90, 45 );
ctx.fillStyle = 'green';
ctx.fillRect( 10, 20, 50, 60 );

var imageData = ctx.getImageData( 0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height );

document.body.innerHTML = triangulate().fromImageDataSync( imageData ).toSVG();
```

fromBuffer()
---
``fromBuffer()`` expects a ``Buffer`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_.

it uses [image#src=buffer](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#imagesrcbuffer) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');

fs.readFile( './lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }
		
	triangulate()
		.fromBuffer( buffer )
		.toSVG()
		.then( function ( svgMarkup ) {
			fs.writeFile( './lincoln.svg', svgMarkup, function ( err ) {
				if ( err ) { throw err; }
				console.log( 'created an svg file.' );
			} );
		} );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

fromBufferSync()
---
``fromBufferSync()`` expects a ``Buffer`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_. it is the synchronous version of [``fromBuffer()``](#frombuffer).

it uses [image#src=buffer](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#imagesrcbuffer) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');

fs.readFile( './lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }
		
	var svgMarkup = triangulate().fromBufferSync( buffer ).toSVGSync();

	fs.writeFile( './lincoln.svg', svgMarkup, function ( err ) {
		if ( err ) { throw err; }
		console.log( 'created an svg file.' );
	} );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

fromStream()
---
``fromStream()`` expects a ``ReadableStream`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_.

it uses [image#src=buffer](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#imagesrcbuffer) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');

var inputStream = fs.createReadStream( './lincoln.jpg' );
var outputStream = fs.createWriteStream( './lincoln-triangulated.png' );

triangulate( params )
	.fromStream( inputStream )
	.toPNGStream()
	.then( function ( pngStream ) {
		pngStream.on( 'data', function ( chunk ) { outputStream.write( chunk ); } );
		pngStream.on( 'end', function () { console.log( 'png file saved.' ); } );
	} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node. currently, theres no input sanitation for this method, so you'll want to make sure that the input stream is an image.

toDataURL()
---
``toDataURL()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var dataUrlParams = {
	dpr: 1                   // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: 'green' // background color of image. not set: transparent background
};

```

it returns a ``String`` containing the base64-encoded image url.

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate()
		.fromImage( image )
		.toDataURL()
		.then( function ( dataURL ) {
			document.body.style.background = 'url(' + dataURL + ')';
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toDataURLSync()
---
``toDataURLSync()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var dataUrlParams = {
	dpr: 1                   // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: 'green' // background color of image. not set: transparent background
};

```

it is the synchronous version of [``toDataUrl()``](#todataurl).

it returns a ``String`` containing the base64-encoded image url.

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	var dataURL = triangulate()
		.fromImageSync( image )
		.toDataURLSync();

	document.body.style.background = 'url(' + dataURL + ')';
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toImageData()
---
``toImageData()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var imageDataParams = {
	dpr: 1                   // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: 'green' // background color of image. not set: transparent background
};

```

it returns an ``ImageData`` object.

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate()
		.fromImage( image )
		.toImageData()
		.then( function ( imageData ) {
			var canvas = document.createElement( 'canvas' );
			var ctx = canvas.getContext( '2d' );
			ctx.putImageData( imageData, 0, 0 );

			document.body.appendChild( canvas );
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toImageDataSync()
---
``toImageDataSync()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var imageDataParams = {
	dpr: 1                   // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: 'green' // background color of image. not set: transparent background
};

```

it returns an ``ImageData`` object.

it is the synchronous version of [``toImageData()``](#toimagedata).

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	var imageData = triangulate()
		.fromImageSync( image )
		.toImageDataSync();
	
	var canvas = document.createElement( 'canvas' );
	var ctx = canvas.getContext( '2d' );
	ctx.putImageData( imageData, 0, 0 );

	document.body.appendChild( canvas );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toSVG()
---
``toSVG()`` does not take any parameters. it returns a ``String`` with svg markup.

example:

```javascript
var params = { blur: 110, vertexCount: 700 };
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate( params )
		.fromImage( image )
		.toSVG()
		.then( function ( svgMarkup ) {
			document.body.innerHTML = svgMarkup;
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toSVGSync()
---
``toSVGSync()`` does not take any parameters. it returns a ``String`` with svg markup. it is the synchronous version of [``toSVG()``](#tosvg).

example:

```javascript
var params = { blur: 110, vertexCount: 700 };
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	document.body.innerHTML = triangulate( params ).fromImageSync( image ).toSVGSync();
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toData()
---
``toData()`` does not take any parameters. it returns an ``Array`` with the data for all polygons.

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate()
		.fromImage( image )
		.toData()
		.then( function ( polygonData ) {
			console.log( polygonData );
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toDataSync()
---
``toDataSync()`` does not take any parameters. it returns an ``Array`` with the data for all polygons. it is the synchronous version of [``toData()``](#todata).

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	console.log( triangulate().fromImageSync( image ).toDataSync() );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toBuffer()
---
``toBuffer()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var bufferParams = {
	format: 'svg' // 'svg', 'pdf' or undefined
};

```

it uses [canvas#tobuffer](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#canvastobuffer) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

it returns a ``Buffer`` object.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');

fs.readFile( './lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }
		
	triangulate()
		.fromBuffer( buffer )
		.toBuffer( { format: 'pdf' } )
		.then( function ( imageBuffer ) {
			fs.writeFile( './lincoln.pdf', imageBuffer, function ( err ) {
				if ( err ) { throw err; }
				console.log( 'created a pdf file.' );
			} );
		} );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

toBufferSync()
---
``toBufferSync()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var bufferParams = {
	format: 'svg' // 'svg', 'pdf' or undefined
};

```

it is the synchronous version of [``toBuffer()``](#tobuffer). it uses [canvas#tobuffer](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#canvastobuffer) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

it returns a ``Buffer`` object.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');

fs.readFile( './lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }
		
	var imageBuffer = triangulate().fromBufferSync( buffer ).toBufferSync( { format: 'pdf' } );

	fs.writeFile( './lincoln.pdf', imageBuffer, function ( err ) {
		if ( err ) { throw err; }
		console.log( 'created a pdf file.' );
	} );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

toJPGStream()
---
``toJPGStream()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var jpgStreamParams = {
	bufsize: 4096,          // output buffer size in bytes
	quality: 75,            // jpg quality (0-100) default: 75
	progressive: false,     // true for progressive compression
	dpr: 1,                 // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: '#fff' // btw: there are no transparent backgrounds in jpg.
};

```

it uses [canvas#jpegstream()](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#canvasjpegstream-and-canvassyncjpegstream) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

it returns a ``JPEGStream`` object.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');
fs.readFile( '.lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }

	var fileStream = fs.createWriteStream( './triangulatedLincoln.jpg' );
	var jpgStream = triangulate().fromBuffer( buffer ).toJPGStream( { backgroundColor: 'red' } );
	
	jpgStream.on( 'data', function ( chunk ) { fileStream.write( chunk ); } );
	jpgStream.on( 'end', function () { console.log( 'jpg file created.' ); } );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

toJPEGStream()
---
see [``toJPGStream()``](#tojpgstream).

toPNGStream()
---
``toPNGStream()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var jpgStreamParams = {
	dpr: 1,                 // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: '#fff' // background color of image. not set: transparent background
};

```

it uses [canvas#pngstream()](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#canvaspngstream) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

it returns a ``PNGStream`` object.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');
fs.readFile( '.lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }

	var fileStream = fs.createWriteStream( './triangulatedLincoln.png' );
	var pngStream = triangulate().fromBuffer( buffer ).toPNGStream( { backgroundColor: 'blue' } );
	
	pngStream.on( 'data', function ( chunk ) { fileStream.write( chunk ); } );
	pngStream.on( 'end', function () { console.log( 'png file created.' ); } );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

toSVGStream()
---
``toSVGStream()`` can't take any parameters.

it returns a ``ReadableStream`` object.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');
fs.readFile( '.lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }

	var svgStream = triangulate().fromBuffer( buffer ).toSVGStream();
	svgStream.pipe( process.stdout );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

in node
---

when used in node, this library has a dependency on the [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) module. node-canvas may require some [extra steps](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#installation) to get it to work on some platforms.

development
===

`npm run build` will build the node-ready and browser-ready versions, which are saved to the `dist-node` and `dist` directories.

`npm run test` will run the tests in both the browser and node.

license
===

[mit](LICENSE)

third party code
---
some parts of the code were taken from the [triangulation image generator](http://jsdo.it/akm2/xoYx) by [akm2](http://codepen.io/akm2) (MIT license).

most of the folder structure and the npm script setup were taken from [nonalnawson](https://github.com/nolanlawson)'s [hello javascript](https://github.com/nolanlawson/hello-javascript) repo (Apache-2.0 license).

dependencies:

* [delaunay js](https://github.com/ironwallaby/delaunay) by [ironwallaby](https://github.com/ironwallaby), public domain
* [canvas-browserify](https://github.com/dominictarr/canvas-browserify) by [dominictarr](https://github.com/dominictarr), MIT license
* [stackblur-canvas](https://github.com/flozz/StackBlur) by [flozz](https://github.com/flozz) and [quasimondo](https://github.com/quasimondo), MIT license


missing something?
---

found a bug? missing a feature? are you using this library in an interesting project? take a look at the [issues](../../issues), open a pull request and let me know.

most importantly
---

thank you for taking a look at this repo. have a great day :)

Commit message:

update + fix docs, add authors and changelog

README.md, after:

[![build status](https://travis-ci.org/snorpey/triangulate-image.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/snorpey/triangulate-image)

triangulate-image
===

installation
---

* [triangulate-image.min.js](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/snorpey/triangulate-image/master/dist/triangulate-image.min.js) 27kb, (9kb gzipped)
* [triangulate-image.js](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/snorpey/triangulate-image/master/dist/triangulate-image.js) 78kb
* [triangulate-image-with-polyfills.min.js](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/snorpey/triangulate-image/master/dist/triangulate-image-with-polyfills.min.js) 29kb, (9kb gzipped)
* [triangulate-image-with-polyfills.js](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/snorpey/triangulate-image/master/dist/triangulate-image-with-polyfills.js) 86kb
* [triangulate-image-master.zip](https://github.com/snorpey/triangulate-image/archive/master.zip)

```npm install triangulate-image```

```bower install triangulate-image```

```jspm install triangulate-image```

what is it?
---
a javascript module that converts images to triangular polygons:

![triangulated image of a. lincoln](example.png)

for a live example, you can check out my [triangulation](http://snorpey.github.io/triangulation/) editor online. there's also a list with [example images](examples/examples.md), and [transparency examples](examples/transparent-examples.md) included in this repository. 

how to use it
===

this library can be used in web browsers as well as in node.

it supports loading as an AMD module, as a CommonJS module or a global variable.

a simple example:

```javascript
var params = { blur: 110, vertexCount: 700 };
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate(params)
		.fromImage(image)
		.toSVG()
		.then( function( svgMarkup ) {
			document.body.innerHTML = svgMarkup;
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

as you can see, there are __three__ calls happening:

1. ``triangulate()`` is called with the __triangulation parameters__
2. then ``fromImage()`` is called with the __input__ image as parameter
3. and finally ``toSVG()`` is called to __output__ svg markup.

when using the library, always follow these three steps: _triangulation_, _input_, _output_.

for an explanation of all available methods and parameters, check out the [reference](#reference) section below.

by default, all input and output methods are asynchronous and use promises for flow control. for most methods, there synchronous versions available as well. this library uses web workers for processing the image data where possible.

you can find more examples for both node and browser in the [examples](examples) folder of this repository.

reference
===

* [``triangulate()``](#triangulate)
* input: [``fromImage()``](#fromimage), [``fromImage()``](#fromimagesync), [``fromImageData()``](#fromimagedata), [``fromImageDataSync()``](#fromimagedatasync), [``fromBuffer()``](#frombuffer), [``fromBufferSync()``](#frombuffersync), [``fromStream()``](#fromstream)
* output: [``toDataURL()``](#todataurl), [``toDataURLSync()``](#todataurlsync), [``toImageData()``](#toimagedata), [``toImageDataSync()``](#toimagedatasync), [``toData()``](#todata), [``toDataSync()``](#todatasync), [``toSVG()``](#tosvg), [``toSVGSync()``](#tosvgsync), [``toJPGStream()``](#tojpgstream), [``toPNGStream()``](#topngstream), [``toSVGStream()``](#tosvgstream)

triangulate()
---
``triangulate()`` can take the following parameters

```javascript

// the parameters listed are the default params

var triangulationParams = {
	accuracy: 0.7,    		// float beteween 0 and 1
	blur: 40,         		// positive integer
	threshold: 50,    		// integer between 1 and 100
	vertexCount: 700, 		// positive integer
	fill: true,       		// boolean or string with css color (e.g '#bada55', 'red', rgba(100,100,100,0.5))
	stroke: true,     		// boolean or string with css color (e.g '#bada55', 'red', hsla(0, 50%, 52%, 0.5))
	strokeWidth: 0.5, 		// positive float
	gradients: true,  		// boolean
	gradientStops: 4, 		// positive integer >= 2
	lineJoin: 'miter',		// 'miter', 'round', or 'bevel'
	transparentColor: false // boolean false or string with css color
};

```

it returns an object containing all __input methods__.

fromImage()
---
``fromImage()`` expects an ``Image`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_.

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate()
		.fromImage( image )
		.toSVG()
		.then ( function ( svgMarkup ) {
			document.body.innerHTML = svgMarkup;
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

_please note_: this method is not available in node.
_important_: when using the library in a browser, make sure the image was loaded before triangulating it.

fromImageSync()
---
``fromImageSync()`` expects an ``Image`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_. it is the synchronous version of [``fromImage()``](#fromimage).

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	document.body.innerHTML = triangulate().fromImageSync( image ).toSVG();
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

_please note_: this method is not available in node.
_important_: when using the library in a browser, make sure the image was loaded before triangulating it.

fromImageData()
---
``fromImageData()`` expects an ``ImageData`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_.

example:

```javascript
var canvas = document.createElement( 'canvas' );
var ctx = canvas.getContext( '2d' );

ctx.fillStyle = 'red';
ctx.fillRect( 30, 30, 90, 45 );
ctx.fillStyle = 'green';
ctx.fillRect( 10, 20, 50, 60 );

var imageData = ctx.getImageData( 0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height );

triangulate()
	.fromImageData( imageData )
	.toSVG()
	.then( function ( svgMarkup ) {
		document.body.innerHTML = svgMarkup;
	} );
```

fromImageDataSync()
---
``fromImageDataSync()`` expects an ``ImageData`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_. it is the synchronous version of [``fromImageData()``](#fromimagedata).

example:

```javascript
var canvas = document.createElement( 'canvas' );
var ctx = canvas.getContext( '2d' );

ctx.fillStyle = 'red';
ctx.fillRect( 30, 30, 90, 45 );
ctx.fillStyle = 'green';
ctx.fillRect( 10, 20, 50, 60 );

var imageData = ctx.getImageData( 0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height );

document.body.innerHTML = triangulate().fromImageDataSync( imageData ).toSVG();
```

fromBuffer()
---
``fromBuffer()`` expects a ``Buffer`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_.

it uses [image#src=buffer](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#imagesrcbuffer) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');

fs.readFile( './lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }
		
	triangulate()
		.fromBuffer( buffer )
		.toSVG()
		.then( function ( svgMarkup ) {
			fs.writeFile( './lincoln.svg', svgMarkup, function ( err ) {
				if ( err ) { throw err; }
				console.log( 'created an svg file.' );
			} );
		} );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

fromBufferSync()
---
``fromBufferSync()`` expects a ``Buffer`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_. it is the synchronous version of [``fromBuffer()``](#frombuffer).

it uses [image#src=buffer](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#imagesrcbuffer) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');

fs.readFile( './lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }
		
	var svgMarkup = triangulate().fromBufferSync( buffer ).toSVGSync();

	fs.writeFile( './lincoln.svg', svgMarkup, function ( err ) {
		if ( err ) { throw err; }
		console.log( 'created an svg file.' );
	} );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

fromStream()
---
``fromStream()`` expects a ``ReadableStream`` object as its only parameter. it returns an object containing all _input methods_.

it uses [image#src=buffer](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#imagesrcbuffer) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');

var inputStream = fs.createReadStream( './lincoln.jpg' );
var outputStream = fs.createWriteStream( './lincoln-triangulated.png' );

triangulate( params )
	.fromStream( inputStream )
	.toPNGStream()
	.then( function ( pngStream ) {
		pngStream.on( 'data', function ( chunk ) { outputStream.write( chunk ); } );
		pngStream.on( 'end', function () { console.log( 'png file saved.' ); } );
	} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node. currently, theres no input sanitation for this method, so you'll want to make sure that the input stream is an image.

toDataURL()
---
``toDataURL()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var dataUrlParams = {
	dpr: 1                   // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: 'green' // background color of image. not set: transparent background
};

```

it returns a ``String`` containing the base64-encoded image url.

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate()
		.fromImage( image )
		.toDataURL()
		.then( function ( dataURL ) {
			document.body.style.background = 'url(' + dataURL + ')';
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toDataURLSync()
---
``toDataURLSync()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var dataUrlParams = {
	dpr: 1                   // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: 'green' // background color of image. not set: transparent background
};

```

it is the synchronous version of [``toDataUrl()``](#todataurl).

it returns a ``String`` containing the base64-encoded image url.

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	var dataURL = triangulate()
		.fromImageSync( image )
		.toDataURLSync();

	document.body.style.background = 'url(' + dataURL + ')';
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toImageData()
---
``toImageData()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var imageDataParams = {
	dpr: 1                   // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: 'green' // background color of image. not set: transparent background
};

```

it returns an ``ImageData`` object.

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate()
		.fromImage( image )
		.toImageData()
		.then( function ( imageData ) {
			var canvas = document.createElement( 'canvas' );
			var ctx = canvas.getContext( '2d' );
			ctx.putImageData( imageData, 0, 0 );

			document.body.appendChild( canvas );
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toImageDataSync()
---
``toImageDataSync()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var imageDataParams = {
	dpr: 1                   // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: 'green' // background color of image. not set: transparent background
};

```

it returns an ``ImageData`` object.

it is the synchronous version of [``toImageData()``](#toimagedata).

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	var imageData = triangulate()
		.fromImageSync( image )
		.toImageDataSync();
	
	var canvas = document.createElement( 'canvas' );
	var ctx = canvas.getContext( '2d' );
	ctx.putImageData( imageData, 0, 0 );

	document.body.appendChild( canvas );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toSVG()
---
``toSVG()`` does not take any parameters. it returns a ``String`` with svg markup.

example:

```javascript
var params = { blur: 110, vertexCount: 700 };
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate( params )
		.fromImage( image )
		.toSVG()
		.then( function ( svgMarkup ) {
			document.body.innerHTML = svgMarkup;
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toSVGSync()
---
``toSVGSync()`` does not take any parameters. it returns a ``String`` with svg markup. it is the synchronous version of [``toSVG()``](#tosvg).

example:

```javascript
var params = { blur: 110, vertexCount: 700 };
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	document.body.innerHTML = triangulate( params ).fromImageSync( image ).toSVGSync();
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toData()
---
``toData()`` does not take any parameters. it returns an ``Array`` with the data for all polygons.

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	triangulate()
		.fromImage( image )
		.toData()
		.then( function ( polygonData ) {
			console.log( polygonData );
		} );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toDataSync()
---
``toDataSync()`` does not take any parameters. it returns an ``Array`` with the data for all polygons. it is the synchronous version of [``toData()``](#todata).

example:

```javascript
var image = new Image();

image.onload = function () {
	console.log( triangulate().fromImageSync( image ).toDataSync() );
};

image.src = 'lincoln.jpg'
```

toBuffer()
---
``toBuffer()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var bufferParams = {
	format: 'svg' // 'svg', 'pdf' or undefined
};

```

it uses [canvas#tobuffer](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#canvastobuffer) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

it returns a ``Buffer`` object.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');

fs.readFile( './lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }
		
	triangulate()
		.fromBuffer( buffer )
		.toBuffer( { format: 'pdf' } )
		.then( function ( imageBuffer ) {
			fs.writeFile( './lincoln.pdf', imageBuffer, function ( err ) {
				if ( err ) { throw err; }
				console.log( 'created a pdf file.' );
			} );
		} );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

toBufferSync()
---
``toBufferSync()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var bufferParams = {
	format: 'svg' // 'svg', 'pdf' or undefined
};

```

it is the synchronous version of [``toBuffer()``](#tobuffer). it uses [canvas#tobuffer](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#canvastobuffer) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

it returns a ``Buffer`` object.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');

fs.readFile( './lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }
		
	var imageBuffer = triangulate().fromBufferSync( buffer ).toBufferSync( { format: 'pdf' } );

	fs.writeFile( './lincoln.pdf', imageBuffer, function ( err ) {
		if ( err ) { throw err; }
		console.log( 'created a pdf file.' );
	} );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

toJPGStream()
---
``toJPGStream()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var jpgStreamParams = {
	bufsize: 4096,          // output buffer size in bytes
	quality: 75,            // jpg quality (0-100) default: 75
	progressive: false,     // true for progressive compression
	dpr: 1,                 // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: '#fff' // btw: there are no transparent backgrounds in jpg.
};

```

it uses [canvas#jpegstream()](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#canvasjpegstream-and-canvassyncjpegstream) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

it returns a ``JPEGStream`` object.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');
fs.readFile( '.lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }

	var fileStream = fs.createWriteStream( './triangulatedLincoln.jpg' );
	var jpgStream = triangulate().fromBuffer( buffer ).toJPGStream( { backgroundColor: 'red' } );
	
	jpgStream.on( 'data', function ( chunk ) { fileStream.write( chunk ); } );
	jpgStream.on( 'end', function () { console.log( 'jpg file created.' ); } );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

toJPEGStream()
---
see [``toJPGStream()``](#tojpgstream).

toPNGStream()
---
``toPNGStream()`` can take the following parameters:

```javascript
var jpgStreamParams = {
	dpr: 1,                 // positive number, short for devicePixelRatio,
	backgroundColor: '#fff' // background color of image. not set: transparent background
};

```

it uses [canvas#pngstream()](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#canvaspngstream) from [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) internally.

it returns a ``PNGStream`` object.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');
fs.readFile( '.lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }

	var fileStream = fs.createWriteStream( './triangulatedLincoln.png' );
	var pngStream = triangulate().fromBuffer( buffer ).toPNGStream( { backgroundColor: 'blue' } );
	
	pngStream.on( 'data', function ( chunk ) { fileStream.write( chunk ); } );
	pngStream.on( 'end', function () { console.log( 'png file created.' ); } );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

toSVGStream()
---
``toSVGStream()`` can't take any parameters.

it returns a ``ReadableStream`` object.

example:

```javascript
var fs = require('fs');
fs.readFile( '.lincoln.jpg', function ( err, buffer ) {
	if ( err ) { throw err; }

	var svgStream = triangulate().fromBuffer( buffer ).toSVGStream();
	svgStream.pipe( process.stdout );
} );
```

_please note_: this method is only available in node.

in node
---

when used in node, this library has a dependency on the [node-canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) module. node-canvas may require some [extra steps](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#installation) to get it to work on some platforms.

development
===

`npm run build` will build the node-ready and browser-ready versions, which are saved to the `dist-node` and `dist` directories.

`npm run test` will run the tests in both the browser and node.

license
===

[mit](LICENSE)

third party code
---
some parts of the code were taken from the [triangulation image generator](http://jsdo.it/akm2/xoYx) by [akm2](http://codepen.io/akm2) (MIT license).

most of the folder structure and the npm script setup were taken from [nonalnawson](https://github.com/nolanlawson)'s [hello javascript](https://github.com/nolanlawson/hello-javascript) repo (Apache-2.0 license).

dependencies:

* [delaunay js](https://github.com/ironwallaby/delaunay) by [ironwallaby](https://github.com/ironwallaby), public domain
* [canvas-browserify](https://github.com/dominictarr/canvas-browserify) by [dominictarr](https://github.com/dominictarr), MIT license
* [stackblur-canvas](https://github.com/flozz/StackBlur) by [flozz](https://github.com/flozz) and [quasimondo](https://github.com/quasimondo), MIT license

more information
---
this repository contains a [changelog](CHANGELOG.md) and an [authors](AUTHORS.md) file with even more information.

missing something?
---

found a bug? missing a feature? are you using this library in an interesting project? take a look at the [issues](../../issues), open a pull request and let me know.

most importantly
---

thank you for taking a look at this repo. have a great day :)
